---
slug: version_3.0_release
title: Migrating to Veramo 3.0
author: Mircea Nistor
author_title: Protocol engineer @ Veramo
author_url: https://github.com/mirceanis
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/965762?s=400&v=4
tags: [veramo, data-store, release, migrations]
---

We are excited to announce a new major release of `Veramo`!

This new release brings together a bunch of fixes and features that we've been working on recently, including some from
the community (thank you for your contributions!).

You can get a detailed list of changes in
the [release description](https://github.com/uport-project/veramo/releases/tag/v3.0.0). Depending on how you're
using `Veramo` you might be impacted by some breaking changes that had to be added in this release.

In Veramo 3.0 we've separated some responsibilities of different plugins that deal with key management. This enables
people to create new kinds of key management systems for Veramo in a way that makes it clearer where private data is
stored and reduces the risk of leaking.

As you may already be aware, Veramo has a 2 layer approach to plugins. On the first layer there are top-level _agent
plugins_ that can register for events and that export methods to be directly callable on the `agent` object. These
plugin methods can also call each other in the same execution context.

In many cases these agent plugins provide some common API for interacting with different protocols or standards
implementations. This is where the second level plugins come in. These provide specific implementations that plug-into
the top-level ones. These implementations aren't expected to be aware of each-other, so they don't directly interact.

Examples of this pattern include `DIDResolver` with implementations for various DID methods, `DIDManager`
with `IDIDProvider` implementations, and of course `KeyManager` with implementations of `AbstractKeyManagementSystem` (
We sometimes refer to these as KMS).

## What's new about key management?

The `@veramo/kms-local` is an implementation of `AbstractKeyManagementSystem`. In the previous versions it was
responsible for implementing some crypto algorithms, but it would rely on the top-level `@veramo/key-manager` to provide
the actual private key material.

In Veramo 3.0 **`@veramo/key-manager` no longer stores any private key material.**
Instead, `@veramo/kms-local` now uses a `PrivateKeyStore` for hosting the key data. The `@veramo/data-store` package
provides an implementation that uses a database for storing these keys encrypted by a `SecretBox`.

This means there will be some changes for the initial setup of these plugins, and also some changes related to how the
database connection is made.

This also means that **`keyManagerGet()` **no longer returns private keys\*\*. If your use-case requires that you export
keys from Veramo, please raise an issue, or contact us on the
[github discussions](https://github.com/uport-project/veramo/discussions) page.

## Ok, so how does it affect me?

If you're just starting out, simply follow one of
the [getting started guides](https://veramo.io/docs/basics/introduction). Easy-peasy.

If you're already working with Veramo and wish to upgrade existing agents to 3.0, you'll have to make some changes to
your configuration, depending on how you're using the framework.

It boils down to these 3 steps, but keep reading for more details:

1. Update your database connection to use `migrations`
2. Remove the `SecretBox` parameter from `KeyManager`
3. Add a `PrivateKeyStore` parameter to `KeyManagementSystem` with a `SecretBox` that you were using before
   with `KeyManager` (and keep the same encryption key)

### Typescript app config changes

If your agents are part of a typescript app, these changes will look like this:

```typescript
import {
  // ...
  migrations, // 0. import default veramo migrations
  PrivateKeyStore,
} from '@veramo/data-store'

// 1. update your connection config to use migrations
dbConnection = createConnection({
  // ...
  synchronize: false, // switch this to false
  migrations, // add default veramo migrations
  migrationsRun: true, // add this flag
})

const agent = createAgent<>({
  // ...
  plugins: [
    // 2. key manager: remove SecretBox param
    new KeyManager({
      store: new KeyStore(dbConnection),
      kms: {
        // 3. kms-local: add PrivateKeyStore with SecretBox
        local: new KeyManagementSystem(new PrivateKeyStore(dbConnection, new SecretBox(secretKey))),
      },
    }),
    // ...
  ],
})
```

### CLI config changes

```yml
# 0. update the version for your config file
version: 3.0
# ...

# 1. update your database connection to use migrations
dbConnection:
  $require: typeorm?t=function#createConnection
  $args:
    - type: sqlite
      database:
        $ref: /constants/databaseFile
      synchronize: false # switch off synchronize
      migrationsRun: true # turn on migrations
      migrations: # start with veramo default migrations
        $require: '@veramo/data-store?t=object#migrations'
      logging: false
      entities:
        $require: '@veramo/data-store?t=object#Entities'

# then update your keyManager config:
keyManager:
  $require: '@veramo/key-manager#KeyManager'
  $args:
    - store:
      $require: '@veramo/data-store#KeyStore'
      $args:
        - $ref: /dbConnection
        # 2. remove the SecretBox argument from KeyManager
      kms:
        local:
          $require: '@veramo/kms-local#KeyManagementSystem'
          $args:
            - $require: '@veramo/data-store#PrivateKeyStore'
              $args:
                - $ref: /dbConnection
                # 3. add the SecretBox argument from KeyManager to your PrivateKeyStore
                - $require: '@veramo/kms-local#SecretBox'
                  $args:
                    - $ref: /constants/secretKey
```

Easy, right?

The default `migrations` that we bundle with `@veramo/data-store` also take care of moving the encrypted keys to the new
table. Make sure to use the same encryption key with `SecretBox` that you were using before to be able to decrypt the
keys in their new location.

### I was using my own `AbstractKeyManagementSystem`, what do I do now?

In that case, **congrats!** [Let us know](https://github.com/uport-project/veramo/discussions/categories/show-and-tell)
about it.

The most important thing to keep in mind is that `KeyManager` **no longer holds any private key material**. It only
knows about which `AbstractKeyManagementSystem` holds the key.

This means that when a method like `sign()` is called on your KMS, you should only care about the `kid` property of
the `IKey` param and nothing else.

Also, it is now the responsibility of the KMS implementation to compute `publicKeyHex` and to decorate a key with
meta-data when it creates or imports it, before returning the descriptor to the calling `KeyManager`.

---

As always, if there are any issues, [let us know abut them](https://github.com/uport-project/veramo/issues), and if
there are questions, please use the [discussions page](https://github.com/uport-project/veramo/discussions) to get them
answered and stay tuned for more.
