---
slug: version_2.0_release
title: Veramo 2.0 with DIDComm v2
author: Mircea Nistor
author_title: Protocol engineer @ Veramo
author_url: https://github.com/mirceanis
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/965762?s=400&v=4
tags: [veramo, did-comm, release]
---

We are excited to announce a new major release of `Veramo`!

This new release brings together a bunch of fixes and features that we've been working on recently, including some from
the community (thank you for your contributions!).

You can get a detailed list of changes in
the [release description](https://github.com/uport-project/veramo/releases/tag/v2.0.0). Depending on how you're
using `Veramo` you might be impacted by some breaking changes that had to be added in this release.

## Added support for DIDComm v2

Our `@veramo/did-comm` package got a boost of functionality with new support for DIDComm v2 over HTTP. This plugin now
exports 3 new methods:

- [`packDIDCommMessage()`](/docs/api/did-comm.didcomm.packdidcommmessage.md) - encrypt and/or sign a message for
  sending.
- [`sendDIDCommMessage()`](/docs/api/did-comm.didcomm.senddidcommmessage.md) - send a packed message to a recipient DID.
- [`unpackDIDCommMessage()`](/docs/api/did-comm.didcomm.unpackdidcommmessage.md) - decode stored messages.

As you may have guessed, the existing `sendMessageDIDCommAlpha1()` method should no longer be used. We hope that the
name of the method already suggested instability. This will be removed in Veramo 4.x.

To send a message you now pack it and then send the packed message:

```typescript
const message = {
  type: 'test',
  to: receiver.did,
  from: sender.did,
  id: '123',
  body: { hello: 'world' },
}
const packedMessage = await agent.packDIDCommMessage({
  packing: 'authcrypt',
  message,
})
const result = await agent.sendDIDCommMessage({
  messageId: '123',
  packedMessage,
  recipientDidUrl: receiver.did,
})
```

According to DIDComm v2 spec, the recipient DID document must have a `DIDCommMessaging` service endpoint and
a `keyAgreementKey` listed. The key agreement key is used to pack (encrypt) the message and the service endpoint is
where the message is sent.

## Added a basic plugin for DID discovery

We imagine that apps dealing with DIDs may need some look-up capabilities, so we created a `DIDDiscovery` plugin that
can mediate this. Multiple DIDDiscovery providers will be asked to find matches based on a query string. We provide 2
basic providers for this, one covers DID aliases and another covers DIDs that are the subject of Credentials with
a `name` claim.

```typescript
const result = await agent.discoverDid({ query: 'alice' })

expect(result.results[0].matches[0]).toEqual({
  did: 'did:example:some-did-with-alias-alice',
  metaData: {
    alias: 'alice',
  },
})
```

These basic providers only look in the local database for these matches. Future providers could search other data
stores, or find DIDs by keys or by .well-known/did-config matches... you name it. Imagination is the limit here.

## Added generic signing and shared-secret capabilities

The `@veramo/key-manager` now exports 2 new methods:

- [`keyManagerSign()`](/docs/api/key-manager.keymanager.keymanagersign.md) - support all signing algorithms that lower
  level key management systems provide.
- [`keyManagerSharedSecret()`](/docs/api/key-manager.abstractkeymanagementsystem.sharedsecret.md) - compute shared
  secrets between a locally managed secret key and an external public key.

These are supposed to start phasing out the previous methods `keyManagerSignJWT()`, `keyManagerSignEthTX()`
and `keyManagerEncryptJWE()`/`keyManagerDecryptJWE()`.

The new signer can accommodate multiple algorithms implemented by
your [`AbstractKeyManagementSystem`](/docs/api/kms-local.md) implementations:

Example 1. signing JWT:

```typescript
const jwsSignature = await agent.keyManagerSign({
  algorithm: 'ES256K',
  data: 'bla.bla',
  encoding: 'utf-8',
  keyRef: myKey.kid,
})
```

Example 2. signing an ethereum transaction:

```typescript
const txData = serialize({
  to: '0xce31a19193d4b23f4e9d6163d7247243bAF801c3',
  value: 300000,
  gasLimit: 43092000,
  gasPrice: 20000000000,
  nonce: 1,
})

const rawTx = await agent.keyManagerSign({
  algorithm: 'eth_signTransaction',
  data: txData,
  encoding: 'hex',
  keyRef: myKey.kid,
})
```

## Get `DIDComm v2` out of the box with `@veramo/remote-server` & `did:web`

If you are using [`@veramo/remote-server#WebDidDocRouter`](/docs/api/remote-server.webdiddocrouter.md)
and [`@veramo/did-provider-web`](/docs/api/did-provider-web.md) it is now easier than ever to receive DIDComm messages.
The `did-provider-web` bootstraps your new `did:web` with Ed25519 and X25519 keys to be used for `keyAgreement` as well
as listing an HTTP `DIDCommMessaging` endpoint by default.

Just as before, you still have to configure your express app with the proper hostname(s) to match your `did:web`
identifiers.

## Simpler setup for react-native

`@veramo/kms-local-react-native` is not needed any more. It is now replaced by `@veramo/kms-local` which can be used in
all environments. Some extra ceremony is still needed on react-native but the overall experience should be simpler.

Take a look at the [React-native tutorial](/docs/react_native_tutorials/react_native_setup_identifiers.md) to see how to
set that up.

---

As always, if there are any issues, [let us know abut them](https://github.com/uport-project/veramo/issues), and if
there are questions, please use the [discussions page](https://github.com/uport-project/veramo/discussions) to get them
answered and stay tuned for more.
